# Microservice task


## Summary

**venue-search-service** is a micro-service written using SpringBoot.
It returns a list of recommended/popular venues near a specified name/location. Service integrates the Foursquare Venues API.
It service has a single end point and a single query parameter "name" to allow query by name/location. I assume that "name" or "location" are interchangeable.
Service returns list of recommended/popular venues as Json string.

## Technologies

Java 8, Spring Boot, JUnit, Mockito, SpringBootTest.

## Build & run

Project is built using Spring Boot and Maven (Spring Boot Maven plugin). Maven POM file with all the dependencies is in the top level project folder.
To build the project, use standard **mvn install** when in the project folder. Spring Boot maven plugin builds an executable jar file which contains all the dependencies.

Service startup: Service can be started by running the executable jar file - either using **mvn spring-boot:run** command in the project folder, or using **java -jar jar_file_name** in the project's target folder.
NOTE: The executable jar file name is **venue-search-service.jar** and is in project's target folder.

POSTMAN: I have also tested the service using Postman as a client. I have included in the project folder the exported Postman's "Collections" which shows the sample URL's I used.


Main service endpoint is **/api/venues**. E.g. http://localhost:8080/api/venues?name=mayfair returns recommended places near location "mayfair"


## Design/Code

This application was created using Spring Boot 1.5.8. Embedded Tomcat container and runs on port 8080 (which is configurable via application.properties file)

Standard Spring RestTemplate is used to make calls to the Foursquare Venues API. Results from the API call are Java POJOs (to be found in the project's *model* package).
As indicated above, the service endpoint accepts a single request query parameter **?name=** which allows you to specify the name/location for recommended/popular venues. (example URL shown above).
Basic "exception handling" is provided and an "ExceptionResponse" object is returned, in order to demonstrate that application specific information can be returned using this approach rather than standard response generated by Spring Boot.

*Configuration:* The Foursquare API specific configuration is held in the **application.properties** file under the resources folder.

I had to familiarise myself with the Foursquare Venue API. I decided to use their **Venues API** - https://api.foursquare.com/v2/venues/explore end point with the requisite parameters. I setup dev account and used the public token.

NOTE: I have included Spring Boot Actuator for demonstration purpose only.

## Tests 

Simple unit tests are provided to demonstrate use of Mockito. They do NOT represent comprehensive for this demo purpose - especially exceptions.

I've also included an **Integration Test** (**VenueServiceControllerIntegrationTest file) to demonstrate how **Spring Boot Test** support should be used to write integration tests (mock or real).
This integration test utilises the embedded container and allows for easy injection of beans and environment specfic properties into the test. 

Usually, the integration tests are in a separate java package (in the project) and they should only be invoked using a specfic maven profile (e.g. mvn -P integration-test);they should not be run as standard unit tests during build process.
This test exists for the demo and will run during maven build along with other unit tests.

## Considerations for production quality service...

Few points below to consider.
- "Mapper" objects can be used when returning POJOs (returned by foursquare API) back to the client These allow for selected data to be returned to the client for security reasons. Futhermore, "Lombok" plugin can be used for easier creation and use of the POJOs.
- As discussed, **Integration Test** can be written which can be run using a Spring Profile.
- Basic Spring Boot security can be incorporated. Although OAuth or Kerberos tokens are typically used in production quality services.
- Application configuration can be externalized and Spring Profiles can be used to deliver environment specific properties.
- Service can incorporate further exception/error handling e.g. request validation failures, bad input/output JSON etc.
- No logging frameworks are used for DEMO purpose.